Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, as this broadcast is coming to you, the Senate
Appropriations Committee of which I'm a member, is very busy considering a wide variety
of projects which include many for Tennessee about six or seven subcommittees or meeting
every day. The President's budget request included among other items the following, $153,000
for paving a portion of the Gatlinberg spur of the foothills Parkway and a lot of money
for construction of the Parkway. $1,900,000 for the completion of the Gatlinberg bypass
and about $730,000 for grading and improving work on a natious trace Parkway
and a little swan creek area. The budget also calls for the following flood control
monies under the Mississippi River and tributaries. West Tennessee drainage district $400,000.
Wolf River channeled the version and flood controlled in Shelby County $500,000 and the Memphis
Harbor Project $640,000. Last year, with Congressman Everett taking the lead, we were successful for
the first time in getting money to begin the work on the old iron and forkered deer rivers.
This started channel clearance and straightening to let the flood waters out into the Mississippi
River. Much farmland and many sections of highway in the Dyer's Berg area have suffered from
these flood waters for many many years and pleased that the president has asked for another $400,000
to continue this important flood control work and we will certainly push hard for it in the committee.
The same is true of the Wolf River channeled the version work at Memphis. Cutting the new channel
through the Mississippi, through to the Mississippi will do much toward removing the unpleasant
odors in the north Memphis and downtown area. It will also remove many acres of bottom lands
in Shelby County from repeated flooding during high water stages. I might also mention here that the
budget included $17 million for work on the bark bed dam. While this is being built in Kentucky,
the benefit will spread through many sections of our state at the northern portion where the
impounded waters will back up and offer many miles of recreational shoreline and also transportation
navigation. Now there's been no budget requests for additional mileage and the interstate highway
program to build a road from Nashville to Dyer's Berg. Governor Ellington has stated that this
is a much needed addition to the system and that he's working hard for it and we will certainly
exert every effort here to see that it's included in the system. It would provide a much needed
link between the northern northwestern portion of our state and the capital. It would also fill a
yawning gap in our interstate system. The new section would be carried over the Mississippi river
by a bridge to connect in Missouri where the rest of the presently planned interstate highway
system. And while I'm on the subject of this interstate highway system, of course we want a good
road from Memphis north to Chicago sometime. I've also learned from Bill Ferris, the Public Works
Commissioner at Memphis, that the Bureau of Public Road is seeking to narrow the middle neutral
strips in the Memphis and Shelby County marriage from 40 feet to 16 feet. I've already undertaken
to put a stop to this. The 40 foot neutral strips are a sound investment. Future traffic loads will
create the need for additional traffic lanes on these interstate sections. To have the 40 foot
strips now means that the new space will not have to be acquired at higher cost when the time for
expansion comes many years hence. There are many other items on the appropriation docket now
before us. I wish I could cover all of them in this brief time but I cannot. I do want to mention
the Cherokee National Forest, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and also the Fish Hatchery at Irvin
Tennessee. The budget only asked for enough funds to maintain the present hatchery. I planned
to offer an amendment which would provide for a complete overhaul of the Fish and Wildlife Service
Hatchery at Irvin. The additional amount I will seek would also provide for a biological program
for the Smoky Mountain National Park and that's it and Mr. Worst said he would go along with this.
All of these programs whether they deal with keeping our national parks and forest and outdoor
sports up to snuff or whether they continue meeting needs of flood control and roads and highways
are very important not only to Tennessee and but to our nation and we will continue to see that
they are properly provided for it. Thank you very much until next week.